Graduate Student Extension - Bias & Ethics

Our approach has a bias when since we extract both simple date expression and deictic date expressions in simple manner.
Specifically, the longest regular expression we have contains three terms (date-month-year) and the smallest regular
expression we have contains only one term. However, our regular expression will fail to generalize in the case of more
than four terms, for example relative date-month-year (before 01/01/2000). Also, we assume that the number in front of
month will be date. However, that number can be a random number, but not date. Therefore, it will affect the generalization
in other context. However, we still choose this approach since it prevents different regular expressions to share the
same result. Our work still generalizes in other domains. However, we still face some collisions since two regular
expressions can share the same component (for example, date-month-year versus year, or date-month-year year month).
The fact that we knew the input consisted of news articles also introduced a bias in what kind of expressions we focused on.
We focused more on 'formal' date formats because they would typically be more present in news articles, unlike less formal formats,
for example, "the day after tomorrow".

Ethics Paper Summary

The paper proposes a tutorial to raise the awareness of ethics in the NLP among practitioners. The goal of this tutorial
is to provide different tools and resources for participants to apply ethically NLP techniques. The tutor introduces
three ethical issues, including dual use, bias, and privacy. This tutorial is based on the participation of the attendee such that
the more engaging of the participants, the better the instruction. Since the tutorial is pedagogy, it uses equitable pedagogical
classroom techniques. Finally, the paper introduces a detailed procedure of how to organize the tutorial from introducing
background and core concepts to discussing big class exercise and then concluding.

